---
title: Heart Failure Survival Analysis
summary: Surival analysis on heart rate desease, find the variables that are statistically significant in leading to a heart failure medical record for the patient.

tags:
- Statistics 
date: "2016-04-27T00:00:00Z"

# Optional external URL for project (replaces project detail page).
external_link: ""

image:
  caption: Photo by rawpixel on Unsplash
  focal_point: Smart

#links:
#- icon: twitter
#  icon_pack: fab
#  name: Follow
#  url: https://twitter.com/georgecushen
  
url_code: ""
url_pdf: ""
url_slides: ""
url_video: ""

# Slides (optional).
#   Associate this project with Markdown slides.
#   Simply enter your slide deck's filename without extension.
#   E.g. `slides = "example-slides"` references `content/slides/example-slides.md`.
#   Otherwise, set `slides = ""`.
#slides: example
---

Abstract

Heart failure is defined as inability of the heart to pump enough blood to sustain normal bodily functions. It is well-established that numerous researches focus on investigating heart failure problems. This study aims to analyze the survival rate of heart failure patients and determine important variables on the statistical model of identifying heart failure problems in practical settings.

To test if age, ejection fraction, high blood pressure and serum creatinine are important variables on deciding heart failure patients’ survival rate, we draw Kaplan-Meier plots, then use Cox Proportional Hazard model and Analysis of Variance (ANOVA) Table to determine statistically significant parameters. Later, we perform forward selection to identify the optimal model with the smallest AIC. Furthermore, we use Random Forests and K-Nearest Neighbors to help improve proposed models by calculating the training accuracy.

We have found that the best model to use to predict heart failure patients’ survival rates is Surv ~ age+ejection fraction+serum creatinine+high blood pressure. On this basis, information on age, ejection fraction, serum creatinine, and high blood pressure should be taken into consideration when a physician is trying to know whether the heart failure patient can survive.

_Keywords_ Heart Failure, Kaplan-Meier Plots, Cox Proportional Hazard Model, ANOVA Table, Forward Selection, AIC, Machine Learning, Age, Ejection Fraction, High Blood Pressure, Serum Creatinine


